Andrés Gualberto Sánchez Guerrero
iOS Software Engineer | +593 987807063 | and_sg@outlook.com |Ecuador | /in/andsangue
Professional Summary
Detail-oriented and performance-driven software developer with 8 years of experience
working with high profile clients, mostly digital banking solutions, under strict FinTech SLAs
schemes. Delivering reliable, high quality, high performance and resilient solutions being
involved in an end to end product delivery using both agile and traditional methodologies.
iOS Developer experience in large complex full native projects with CI/CD, also provided
support as Native Expert in Hybrid mobile technologies (Cordova, Flutter and React Native),
some working experience in Android development, enough to solve deprecation problems
and compile releases. Web development using React.
Holds a Master's in Applied Computer Science with solid understanding of software
development, information representation, software architectures and distributed
computing. The master was completed in English certificating its domain in collaborative
environments with advanced communication skills.
Technical Skills
Native: iOS Development, Swift, SwiftUI, Xcode, RESTful Web services integration, Objective-
C, Static libraries and Frameworks, Cocoa Pods, SPM, Git, TDD, Application hardening
freeRASP, ISO 27001 ISMS, Android Studio, Java, Bash and Zsh, Apple Store Connect,
TestFlight, Google Play Console. Hybrid: Cordova, React Native, JavaScript, Dart, HTML/CSS,
Python, Scala.
Practices and paradigms: Functional programming, OOP, POP, MVC, VIPER MVVM, SOLID,
DRY, GRASP, Clean Code. Apple’s design guidelines and human interface guidelines. Android
and Flutter Material design guidelines. Agile and waterfall.
Educa6on
• MSc in Applied Computer Science (Smart Cities)
—
Vrije Universiteit Brussel
—
Belgium | 2018
–
2020 | Thesis: Minimalistic AI Architectures
–
Research &
Development using Python. Program fully in English.
• BSc in Electronics and Communications Engineering
2015 | Graduated with honors
–
Cohort’s Top student.
—
UT Ambato
—
Ecuador | 2008
–
Professional Experience
• iOS Native Expert | Software Engineer
—
Remote | Jun 2017
-
Aug 2018 and Nov 2020
studies]
TODO1 Services Inc. DBA iuvity
—
Ecuador/
–
Present [Two years gap due to Master’s
• Developed UI features of iOS native apps and plugins for hybrid mobile apps
(Cordova and React Native) using Swift, ObjectiveC, Java and JavaScript. Ensuring
95% effectiveness of deployments with minimum affectations caused by bugs using
TDD and CI/CD practices. Meeting also industry level security standards.
• Ensure meeting reliability and availability standards using FinTech Industry SLAs of
99.5% systems availability and 95% of incidents solved on time. For major regional
clients such as Bancolombia Group and Colombia’s Local banks such as Banco
Mundo Mujer, Banco Union, Coltefinanciera and Financiera Comultrasan.
• iOS Developer
—
Bayteq Cia Ltda
—
Ecuador | Sep 2015
–
Jun 2017
• Designed and developed iOS and WatchOS applications for clients such as Banco
Bolivariano, Telefó nica, and UTPL.
• Contributed to project architecture using VIPER and MVC, and managed
deployments via TestFlight and App Store Connect.
• Private Tutor
—
Freelance
—
Ecuador | Jan 2010
–
Dec 2015
• Tutored and coached high school and university students in STEM and Electronics.
So9 Skills
circumstances.
• Attention to details and troubleshooting of complex problems under very specific
• Negotiation skills to compromise technical and business requirements.
• Professional behaviour and effective communication for critical production problems in
high stress situations.
• Structured thought process in the conversions of designs into working code, its delivery
and technical documentation.
• Convey complex issues in different levels of abstraction according to the audience’s
knowledge.
• Stoic, resilient, hardworking, spiritual and existentialist. Integrity and principles over
everything else. Passionate sports practitioner..
Cer6fica6ons
• iOS Lead essentials Program Cohort 32
—
Essential Developer
—
Online | In progress.
Publica6ons & Achievements
• 📘 IEEE Xplore, 2017
–
ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7975957)
Print server UI for real-time 3D printer image control (http://
Languages
English: C1 (TOEFL B2 Certified, UTA Certified) | French: Survival mode for Brussels.